Let's go over the Ansible yaml.
So what this Ansible is doing is it's basically install Apache server by running Yum S3, DPD and then
starting the Apache server and then it's deploying a static website.
So basically copying index HTML from this GitHub repository to the destination.
In var dub dub dub HTML on the ESI to the listed under web server.
So if I go back up and then go to web server inventory and say here's the IP address of the web server
and the Ansible user is equal to ESI to that user.
So this is not a real IP yet.
So I'm going to spin up AC two and whatever the IP address is, I'm going to put it here.
But the important part is that this should match whatever we are using in the Ansible YAML.
And it's going to copy over this index that is HTML to that easy to pretty straightforward it just says
cloud DevOps rocks.
Okay, so let's do one thing.
Let's just create our EC2, which will act as the web server.
So basically the Jenkins job should be able to ssh into this web server.
Easy to run the simple playbook, install Apache, start Apache and copy over index to this HTML file.
When we went over the high level flow we showed to web server executes.
But from this demo we are just going to do with one web server, etc..
So thing to remember is when you create the ACTU, you have to specify a key pair that can be used to
SSH into the EC2.
So the Jenkins job should have access to that.
So we're going to go over that part as well.
All right.
Let's click launch instances.
I'm going to select Amazon Linux to.
I'm going to select T to micro.
I'm going to keep everything as is.
And then review and launch, click launch.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a new key pair and I'm going to name it and symbol demo
and I'm going to download the key pair and then I'm going to launch instances.
Let's go back here.
Okay.
So it's pending.
So it's going to take a minute or so.
All right.
Now let's go back to Jenkins and configure our job.
Click new item.
This will be a pipeline job.
I'm going to name it Ansible demo click.
Okay.
So I'm going to put the pipeline script here to show you that, how you can write the Jenkins file for
some of these complex plugins such as Ansible.
So I'm going to select Helloworld.
So it gives us a template to work with.
So now I just create a two stage.
One is the steam checkout where we copy over our GitHub repository, and the next step we run the Ansible.
But I haven't filled up the steps yet because I wanted to show you this cool thing.
So let's say you want to copy over gate or you want to run Ansible and you have to write the Jenkins
file syntax.
So Jenkins gave you this pipeline syntax which generates the syntax for you.
So let's click pipeline syntax.
So let's say you want to copy over this git.
So select git and then give the repository URLs.
If I go back to my Jenkins GitHub repository code strips copy over.
And then go back here past it.
And this repository is private, so we have to give our credentials.
So I'm going to select my GitHub credentials and then change the branch from master to Main.
Okay.
Generate pipeline script.
All right.
So this is this is our Jenkins file script.
So if we go back to the job and then we can just paste it here.
Okay.
Similarly for Ansible, also we click the pipeline syntax and then see then symbol is default selected
because it's the first one invoke an Ansible playbook.
So the Ansible tool is Ansible.
So remember we set up the Ansible in the global configuration.
Now the playbook file path in workspace.
So workspace is the folder that's copied over from your git repository.
So the playbook file path will be this install apache dot html.
So there's a copy the name.
Go back, install a patch or HTML, and this is the inventory file path.
So go here.
This is web server dot envy.
So now under S-H, you have to give the search key that it can use to log in to our instance.
So another thing we need to change is let's see the IP address.
So the IP address is this.
So I'm just going to copy this and then go to my GitHub repository and in the web server inventory,
I'm just going to pass this IP address.
Okay.
Click comment changes.
Going back to the sage connection.
So here you have to add Jenkins and then select this kind option and then select sage username with
private key.
The ID you can give anything a sage key description you can give a sage key to access skype server username
will be c to dash user.
And then you can select this, then it's not going to show you the username, but that's okay.
Easy to use.
That is pretty common username.
And then the private key click enter directly.
And remember we saved this Ansible demo key that we use to spin up our too.
So I'm going to show this in folder.
So I'm actually going to open my Visual Studio open file.
Download will demo open.
So now copy this whole thing.
Control A, control C and then go back to your Jenkins.
Click Add and then past the whole content.
All right, click add.
Now, under here, we should be able to see the easy to user.
All right, we don't need a vault credential.
Keep everything as is, and then disable this host ssh key check.
Else it will try to check every time and it might make your job fail certain times.
All right, click generate pipeline script.
So copy this.
Go back to your Jenkins job and pass the status step.
All right, let's click Save.
So after we run the Jenkins job, it should install Apache in the first too.
If I scroll right, you can see the key name is and symbol demo.
And then we should be able to access indexed HTML.
All right, let's try it out.
Let's click build now.
Click this console output.
You could see it is installing Apache.
So basically it was able to SFH into the AC two and do all that stuff.
All right.
It's finished successfully.
I'm just going to name this.
To make it a little bit more convenient save.
And then I'm going to name our Jenkins EC2 as Jenkins, so it's easier to understand.
So at this point, if we connect back to our web server, I just want to see if index dot is HTML is
copied.
And if we go to
var w w w xhtml and then ls.
So our index model is copied.
If we run indexed or html.
All right, so this is our file.
So before we invoke this using the public IP address, we have to make sure that the security group
accepts traffic in port a t security group.
All right.
So currently it only accepts in port 22, which is not good.
So I'm going to open up the security group in a new window and then click edit inbound rules.
Drool.
Okay.
I'm going to select HTTP, which is TCP 80.
And for now I'm just going to add everything.
I'm also going to add extra DPS just for fun, even though this will not be a strip collection.
All right.
Click Save Rules.
Now go back to our AC two.
All right.
So the security group is all set.
Now let's copy the public IP address, open a new tab, paste it.
All right.
It's showing our indexed HTML.
All right, folks, this is how you can run an Ansible playbook from your Jenkins job.
And whatever you want to do from your Ansible playbook.
You can code it there.
As long as the Jenkins job has the key to log in to the AC two and do the stuff that you are specifying
in the Ansible playbook.
It should be able to execute those.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.